         NINE  MEG GOES TO VANITY FAIR
"It's so dreadful to be poor!" sighed Meg, looking down at her old
Nobody spoke for a minute; then Meg said in an altered tone, "You know
ought to do it gladly.  But I am afraid I don't," and Meg shook her
longing to enjoy myself at home," began Meg, in the complaining tone
be, if we had no worries!" said Meg, who could remember better times.
"Really, girls, you are both to be blamed," said Meg, beginning to
"As for you, Amy," continued Meg, "you are altogether too particular
"You're a dear, and nothing else," answered Meg warmly, and no one
brightened to welcome her.  Meg stopped lecturing, and lighted the
"I'm the oldest," began Meg, but Jo cut in with a decided, "I'm the man
Everyone thought soberly for a minute, then Meg announced, as if the
"How will we give the things?" asked Meg.
surprise her.  We must go shopping tomorrow afternoon, Meg. There is so
such things," observed Meg, who was as much a child as ever about
Jo gave a despairing groan, and Meg laughed outright, while Beth let
blame me.  Come on, Meg."
"It's the best we've had yet," said Meg, as the dead villain sat up and
bread.  Beth's stage-struck!" cried Meg, and the rehearsal ended in a
dinner.  Has anyone called, Beth?  How is your cold, Meg?  Jo, you look
way.  Meg arranged the tea table, Jo brought wood and set chairs,
old to be drafted, and not strong enough for a soldier," said Meg
feet, Meg and Amy perched on either arm of the chair, and Jo leaning on
"We all will," cried Meg.  "I think too much of my looks and hate to
said Meg.
"Let us do it," said Meg thoughtfully.  "It is only another name for
accompaniment to the simple songs they sang.  Meg had a voice like a
Meg with a "Merry Christmas," and bade her see what was under her
"Girls," said Meg seriously, looking from the tumbled head beside her
"How good Meg is!  Come, Amy, let's do as they do.  I'll help you with
"Where is Mother?" asked Meg, as she and Jo ran down to thank her for
who had lived with the family since Meg was born, and was considered by
ready," said Meg, looking over the presents which were collected in a
"Isn't that right?  I thought it was better to do it so, because Meg's
said Meg, with a frown for Jo and a smile for Beth.
"Where have you been, and what are you hiding behind you?" asked Meg,
herself that Meg hugged her on the spot, and Jo pronounced her 'a
Meg was already covering the buckwheats, and piling the bread into one
Meg, as they set out their presents while their mother was upstairs
Marmee!" cried Jo, prancing about while Meg went to conduct Mother to
Beth played her gayest march, Amy threw open the door, and Meg enacted
Out came Meg, with gray horsehair hanging about her face, a red and
"Mother did it." And Meg smiled her sweetest, in spite of her gray
into his head?  We don't know him!" exclaimed Meg.
us but he's bashful, and Meg is so prim she won't let me speak to him
when he saw Meg coming, and walked off.  I mean to know him some day,
"I never had such a fine bouquet before!  How pretty it is!" And Meg
"Jo!  Jo!  Where are you?" cried Meg at the foot of the garret stairs.
"Here!" answered a husky voice from above, and, running up, Meg found
pet rat who lived near by and didn't mind her a particle.  As Meg
for tomorrow night!" cried Meg, waving the precious paper and then
"If I only had a silk!" sighed Meg.  "Mother says I may when I'm
"You must have gloves, or I won't go," cried Meg decidedly. "Gloves are
dreadfully," began Meg, whose gloves were a tender point with her.
So Meg went away to 'accept with thanks', look over her dress, and sing
house.  Meg wanted a few curls about her face, and Jo undertook to
oh, my hair!" wailed Meg, looking with despair at the uneven frizzle on
cried Meg petulantly.
After various lesser mishaps, Meg was finished at last, and by the
dress on.  They looked very well in their simple suits, Meg's in
easy and fine".  Meg's high-heeled slippers were very tight and hurt
"Yes, yes, spandy nice, and Meg has cologne on hers," cried Jo, adding
Meg, who had a good many little 'aristocratic tastes' of her own.
right?  And does my hair look very bad?" said Meg, as she turned from
handed them over to the eldest of her six daughters. Meg knew Sallie
joys of her life.  She telegraphed her wish to Meg, but the eyebrows
began.  Meg was asked at once, and the tight slippers tripped about so
let Meg sail about.  Don't you dance?"
stored it up to repeat to Meg.  Both peeped and criticized and chatted
"I can't, for I told Meg I wouldn't, because..." There Jo stopped, and
shows, and Meg told me to keep still so no one would see it.  You may
festival at Heidelberg when Meg appeared in search of her sister.  She
So Meg reclined, with rubbers well hidden, and Jo went blundering away
"Oh, dear, what a blunderbuss I am!" exclaimed Jo, finishing Meg's
"I was trying to get something for Meg, who is very tired, and someone
and was so obliging that even particular Meg pronounced him a 'nice
people who had strayed in, when Hannah appeared.  Meg forgot her foot
Hannah scolded, Meg cried, and Jo was at her wits' end, till she
That settled it, and telling him of Meg's mishap, Jo gratefully
elegant.  Laurie went on the box so Meg could keep her foot up, and the
perfectly splendid, if Mother only lets me go," answered Meg, cheering
With what Meg called 'a great want of manners' Jo had saved some
wait on me," said Meg, as Jo bound up her foot with arnica and brushed
sighed Meg the morning after the party, for now the holidays were over,
fond of luxury," said Meg, trying to decide which of two shabby gowns
This idea tickled Jo's fancy and put her in good spirits, but Meg
So Meg went down, wearing an injured look, and wasn't at all agreeable
drowned," exclaimed Meg angrily as she tried to get rid of the kitten
Jo laughed, Meg scolded, Beth implored, and Amy wailed because she
angels.  Now then, Meg!"  And Jo tramped away, feeling that the
"Don't use such dreadful expressions," replied Meg from the depths of
"How ridiculous you are, Jo!"  But Meg laughed at the nonsense and felt
children's older sisters were just out, and Meg caught frequent
her.  Poor Meg seldom complained, but a sense of injustice made her
"My only comfort," she said to Meg, with tears in her eyes, "is that
Meg was Amy's confidant and monitor, and by some strange attraction of
really dying for some amusement," said Meg, as they sat sewing together
"Did she own she liked it?" asked Meg.
"That reminds me," said Meg, "that I've got something to tell. It isn't
against us, and give us a sermon instead of a romance!" cried Meg.
"What in the world are you going to do now, Jo?" asked Meg one snowy
fire, as I do," said Meg with a shiver.
Meg went back to toast her feet and read _Ivanhoe_, and Jo began to dig
scandalizing Meg by her queer performances.  The plan of 'going over'
and was glad if I could do anything for you.  Meg wanted me to bring
"The pretty one is Meg, and the curly-haired one is Amy, I believe?"
dance.  Meg and I would make you laugh over our funny stage properties,
"What would Meg say to this?" thought Jo, as she was marched away,
him, Meg longed to walk in the conservatory, Beth sighed for the grand
"Dear me, how romantic!" exclaimed Meg.
suppose.  Italians are always nice," said Meg, who was a little
it," said Meg, with the air of a young lady who knew all about the
"Yes, Jo, your little friend is very welcome, and I hope Meg will
Meg could walk in the conservatory whenever she liked and revel in
courage to go to the 'Mansion of Bliss', as Meg called it.  She went
After many serious discussions with Meg and Jo, the pattern was chosen,
stool, all complete," added Meg, opening the instrument and displaying
surprise, and Meg exclaimed, with up-lifted hands, "Well, I do believe
"Why?" asked Meg kindly, for Jo had gone off in another laugh at Amy's
"In debt, Amy?  What do you mean?" And Meg looked sober.
pricking bits of rubber to make balls."  And Meg tried to keep her
"How much will pay them off and restore your credit?" asked Meg, taking
comforted her afflicted little daughter in her tenderest manner. Meg
find out the secret, if she teased for an hour. Turning to Meg, who
"I can't, dear, because you aren't invited," began Meg, but Jo broke in
impatiently, "Now, Meg, be quiet or you will spoil it all.  You can't
Amy held her tongue, but used her eyes, and saw Meg slip a fan into her
"Just listen to me a minute, and be a good child," said Meg soothingly.
for some fun.  Do, Meg!  I'll be ever so good," pleaded Amy, looking as
her up well," began Meg.
in her most aggravating way, "I shall go.  Meg says I may, and if I pay
Sitting on the floor with one boot on, Amy began to cry and Meg to
a tempest.  Meg, Beth, and Amy were sitting together, late in the
Meg and Beth said, "No." at once, and looked surprised.  Amy poked the
Meg flew to rescue Amy, and Beth to pacify Jo, but Jo was quite beside
Beth mourned as for a departed kitten, and Meg refused to defend her
stone, and Amy broke down, so Meg and Mother sang alone.  But in spite
of the fidgets, Meg was sensitive, Beth would look grieved and wistful
I guess she will, if you try her at the right minute," said Meg.  "Go
MEG GOES TO VANITY FAIR
children should have the measles just now," said Meg, one April day, as
ready," said Meg, glancing round the room at the very simple outfit,
and Laurie promised to send me all I want," replied Meg.  "Now, let me
with a gold top," sighed Meg, surveying the little umbrella with great
for common."  And Meg took a refreshing peep at her glove box.
clothes and bows on my caps?" said Meg impatiently.
Mother to pack," said Meg, cheering up, as she glanced from the
The next day was fine, and Meg departed in style for a fortnight of
The Moffats were very fashionable, and simple Meg was rather daunted,
they led, and soon put their guest at her ease. Perhaps Meg felt,
was engaged, which was extremely interesting and romantic, Meg thought.
Mrs. Moffat, a fat, jolly old lady, who took as great a fancy to Meg as
one.  Meg saw the girls glance at it and then at one another, and her
arms.  But in their kindness Meg saw only pity for her poverty, and her
maid, holding it to Meg.
girls, fluttering about Meg in a high state of curiosity and surprise.
"The note is from Mother, and the flowers from Laurie," said Meg
"Oh, indeed!" said Annie with a funny look, as Meg slipped the note
Here Meg's partner appeared, to find her looking much flushed and
Those foolish, yet well meant words, had opened a new world to Meg, and
Poor Meg had a restless night, and got up heavy-eyed, unhappy, half
struck Meg at once.  They treated her with more respect, she thought,
Meg colored, but a mischievous fancy to tease the girls made her reply
"Nearly seventy, I believe," answered Meg, counting stitches to hide
"There isn't any, Laurie is only a little boy."  And Meg laughed also
"Nearer my sister Jo's; I am seventeen in August," returned Meg,
so it is quite natural that we children should play together," and Meg
"Nor I..." began Meg, but stopped because it occurred to her that she
torn last night," said Meg, trying to speak quite easily, but feeling
"I haven't got any other."  It cost Meg an effort to say that, but
well enough for a little girl like me," said Meg.
Meg couldn't refuse the offer so kindly made, for a desire to see if
between them they turned Meg into a fine lady.  They crimped and curled
would have added 'a soupcon of rouge', if Meg had not rebelled.  They
breathe and so low in the neck that modest Meg blushed at herself in
a ruche, reconciled Meg to the display of her pretty, white shoulders,
As Meg went rustling after, with her long skirts trailing, her earrings
sure you don't trip," returned Sallie, trying not to care that Meg was
observation of Meg, who tried to look as if she had not heard and been
it, or let it change me a bit," thought Meg, and rustled across the
"What shall you tell her?" asked Meg, full of curiosity to know his
it.  Wouldn't Jo stare if she saw me?" said Meg, bent on making him say
"Don't you like me so?" asked Meg.
That was altogether too much from a lad younger than herself, and Meg
"Oh, dear!" sighed Meg.  "I wish I'd been sensible and worn my own
"I'm afraid it will be too disagreeable to you," said Meg, trying to
Meg smiled and relented, and whispered as they stood waiting to catch
"Laurie, I want you to do me a favor, will you?" said Meg, as he stood
"Then why did you do it?" said Laurie's eyes, so plainly that Meg
them.  What a bore!" said Meg, assuming a languid air which amused
I wouldn't, Meg, your mother doesn't like it, you know," he whispered,
"I'm not Meg tonight, I'm 'a doll' who does all sorts of crazy things.
Meg danced and flirted, chattered and giggled, as the other girls did.
no chance to deliver it, for Meg kept away from him till he came to say
This little bit of byplay excited Annie's curiosity, but Meg was too
the time.  Home is a nice place, though it isn't splendid," said Meg,
Meg had told her adventures gayly and said over and over what a
As the clock struck nine and Jo proposed bed, Meg suddenly left her
altogether abominable," said Meg self-reproachfully.
cheek, which suddenly grew rosy as Meg answered slowly...
pleased that such ideas should be put into Meg's innocent mind.
Mother?" said Meg, looking distressed.
Meg."
admired, and I can't help saying I like it," said Meg, looking half
Meg."
thing to see Meg blushing and talking about admiration, lovers, and
"Mother, do you have 'plans', as Mrs. Moffat said?" asked Meg bashfully.
heart of yours right, on a very serious subject.  You are young, Meg,
experience.  It is natural to think of it, Meg, right to hope and wait
themselves forward," sighed Meg.
decidedly.  "Don't be troubled, Meg, poverty seldom daunts a sincere
Meg's had roses and heliotrope, myrtle, and a little orange tree in it.
round their heads, and took their seats with great solemnity.  Meg, as
    a pint of milk, two eggs, four spoons of sugar, nutmeg,
    Meg--Good.
Meg and Amy were contrary-minded, and Mr. Winkle rose to say with great
Meg, coming home one warm day to find Jo laid upon the sofa in an
"I shall lie abed late, and do nothing," replied Meg, from the depths
"May we, Mother?" asked Meg, turning to Mrs. March, who sat sewing in
"Oh, dear, no!  It will be delicious, I'm sure," said Meg complacently.
rest of the day.  Next morning, Meg did not appear till ten o'clock.
'Marmee's corner', which looked as usual.  And there Meg sat, to 'rest
delightful, though unusually long day.  Meg, who went shopping in the
Meg put out some of her sewing, and then found time hang so heavily,
Meg ran upstairs and soon came back again, looking relieved but rather
larder, and while Beth and Amy set the table, Meg and Jo got breakfast,
of her, for she'd take care of herself," said Meg, who presided and
Jo, who knew still less than Meg about culinary affairs.
company," said Meg, when informed of the hospitable but rash act.
had better ask Mother's leave before you order anything," returned Meg
the stove was red-hot.  Hannah had left a pan of bread to rise, Meg had
forgotten it.  Meg was entertaining Sallie Gardiner in the parlor, when
Sallie began to laugh, but Meg nodded and lifted her eyebrows as high
had few friends.  So Meg gave her the easy chair and tried to entertain
another was tasted and left, while Amy giggled, Meg looked distressed,
"Salt instead of sugar, and the cream is sour," replied Meg with a
the pillows and putting things in order.  Meg helped Jo clear away the
"It has seemed shorter than usual, but so uncomfortable," said Meg.
get on?" cried Meg, who had had suspicions all day.
they are." said Meg.
"Miss Meg March, one letter and a glove," continued Beth, delivering
"Why, I left a pair over there, and here is only one," said Meg,
Mrs. March glanced at Meg, who was looking very pretty in her gingham
"Here's richness!" cried Jo, flying in to tell the news to Meg.
can row, and Meg see to the lunch, and the children be useful in some
about them, Jo?" asked Meg.
becoming!" observed Meg complacently.  "Have you anything decent, Jo?"
preparation for the fete as seemed necessary and proper. Meg had an
Moffat, I do declare.  Meg, isn't that the man who bowed to you one day
right, Jo?" cried Meg in a flutter.
You shall not make a guy of yourself," remonstrated Meg, as Jo tied
lively scene was enacted there.  Meg was grateful to see that Miss
Meg, in the other boat, was delightfully situated, face to face with
man, with handsome brown eyes and a pleasant voice.  Meg liked his
other eight.  Mr. Brooke chose Meg, Kate, and Fred. Laurie took Sallie,
Meg drew her aside, under pretense of pinning up a loose braid, and
"Don't praise me, Meg, for I could box his ears this minute. I should
"Jo can," said Meg, glad to recommend her sister.  So Jo, feeling that
Meg and Brooke who make it all go, and I'm no end obliged to you.  What
talking to Meg, and Kate just stares at them through that ridiculous
which surprised Meg, who treated the tutor with as much respect as any
its wasted hand," went on Meg.  "It beckoned, gliding noiselessly
"I hope so," said Meg soberly.
Miss Kate and Mr. Brooke, Meg, and Ned declined, but Fred, Sallie, Jo,
"How beautifully you do it!  I wish I could draw," said Meg, with
made Meg color, and wish she had not been so frank.
Miss Kate in a patronizing tone that hurt Meg's pride, and made her
translated it for me." And Meg's downcast face brightened as she spoke.
"It's so hard I'm afraid to try," said Meg, grateful, but bashful in
Mr. Brooke made no comment as she returned the book to Meg, who said
Meg obediently following the long grass-blade which her new tutor used
the beauty of the sad scene, Meg read as if alone, giving a little
and don't treat them as we do," said Meg, looking after the retreating
And Mr. Brooke looked so contented and cheerful that Meg was ashamed to
"Going to college, I suppose?" Meg's lips asked the question, but her
"I am glad of that!" exclaimed Meg.  "I should think every young man
be very sorry to have any harm happen to you," said Meg heartily.
"I dote upon it.  My sister, Meg, used to ride when Papa was rich, but
"I always said she was a little saint," added Meg, as if there could be
he looked at Meg with such a lackadiasical expression that she laughed
replied Meg, passing over the first part of his reproach, for it was
a long staff.  Meg had a cushion, Jo a book, Beth a basket, and Amy a
strangers but old friends.  Meg sat upon her cushion, sewing daintily
Meg lifted her eyebrows, but Jo scowled at her defiantly and said at
"I always like your games, but if Meg doesn't want me, I'll go away."
idle here," replied Meg gravely but graciously.
"Would you tell him?" asked Meg of her sisters.
by-and-by, when we are good enough," answered Meg with her sweetest
"You'd have to take your favorite one.  What is it?" asked Meg.
for what I like.  That's my favorite castle. What's yours, Meg?"
"I said 'pleasant people', you know," and Meg carefully tied up her
answered Meg petulantly.
"I haven't got any," said Meg forlornly.
Meg colored behind the brake, but asked no questions and looked across
"Bless me!  How old I shall be, twenty-seven!" exclaimed Meg, who felt
wishes, my dear boy," said Meg in her most maternal tone. "Do your best
"So he is, dear old fellow!" said Laurie heartily, as Meg paused,
"Begin to do something now by not plaguing his life out," said Meg
is said in confidence, you know," cried Meg, much alarmed at the
And Meg offered her hand with a gesture both affectionate and timid.
as possible, wound cotton for Meg, recited poetry to please Jo, shook
are told to do," said Meg, smiling.
bit of news I get.  I know where Meg's glove is."
patience!  What would Meg say?"
"At the idea of anybody coming to take Meg away? No, thank you."
But someone did pass, and who should it be but Meg, looking
"They grow on this road, Meg, so do combs and brown straw hats."
romping ways?" said Meg reprovingly, as she settled her cuffs and
make me grow up before my time, Meg.  It's hard enough to have you
her face and drew Meg's attention from it by asking quickly, "Where
"Do you envy her, Meg?" said Laurie.
"Why?" asked Meg, looking surprised.
"I shall never '_go_ and marry' anyone," observed Meg, walking on with
stones, and 'behaving like children', as Meg said to herself, though
Mr. Brooke whenever they met, would sit looking at Meg with a
of the window, Meg, as she sat sewing at her window, was scandalized by
capturing her in Amy's bower.  What went on there, Meg could not see,
lady," sighed Meg, as she watched the race with a disapproving face.
"Have you anything interesting there?" asked Meg, with condescension.
"That sounds well.  Read it," said Meg.
names, isn't that queer?" said Meg, wiping her eyes, for the lovering
"You?" cried Meg, dropping her work.
Dear me, how delighted they all were, to be sure!  How Meg wouldn't
said Meg, who was out of sorts.  "We go grubbing along day after day,
said Meg bitterly.
Meg sighed, and turned to the frostbitten garden again.  Jo groaned and
"Much obliged, but I'm busy."  And Meg whisked out her workbasket, for
water, while Meg and Hannah supported her, and Jo read aloud, in a
tell Hannah to get down the black trunk, and Meg, come and help me find
poor lady, and Meg begged her to sit quietly in her room for a little
back directly.  No one had time to think of him again till, as Meg ran
Down dropped the rubbers, and the tea was very near following, as Meg
Meg spoke earnestly, and forgot herself entirely till something in the
The short afternoon wore away.  All other errands were done, and Meg
Meg gave all her quarterly salary toward the rent, and I only got some
"Didn't you feel dreadfully when the first cut came?" asked Meg, with a
of the great trouble, but Meg lay awake, thinking the most serious
It did not seem at all comical to Meg, who kissed and caressed the
"I can't sleep, I'm so anxious," said Meg.
"Handsome faces--eyes particularly," answered Meg, smiling to herself
Jo laughed, and Meg sharply ordered her not to talk, then amiably
very hard to keep their resolution.  Meg's eyes kept filling in spite
"Meg, dear, be prudent, watch over your sisters, consult Hannah, and in
"It seems as if half the house was gone," added Meg forlornly.
to things here," said Meg, wishing she hadn't made her eyes so red.
The girls couldn't help laughing, and felt better for it, though Meg
face.  "Goodbye, Meggy, I hope the Kings won't strain today.  Don't
looks very boyish and nice," returned Meg, trying not to smile at the
the head of the family, Meg insisted on reading the dispatches, which
MEG
laugh to see Meg head the table and try to be motherish.  She gets
girls--Meg says I mean contradick so I put in both words and you can
take the properest.  Meg is a great comfort to me and lets me have
does.  The sleeves of my blue dress were all worn out, and Meg put in
Meg says my punchtuation and spelling are disgraceful and I am
fly round right smart.  Miss Meg is going to make a proper good
a model servant, and guards pretty Meg like a dragon. Glad the fine
pies.  Meg went daily to her pupils, and sewed, or thought she did, at
"Meg, I wish you'd go and see the Hummels.  You know Mother told us not
"I'm too tired to go this afternoon," replied Meg, rocking comfortably
"Why don't you go yourself?" asked Meg.
Beth spoke earnestly, and Meg promised she would go tomorrow.
"Amy will be in presently, and she will run down for us," suggested Meg.
the Hummels were forgotten.  An hour passed.  Amy did not come, Meg
"Years ago, when Meg did.  Why?"
her.  Can't you and Meg have it over again?" asked Beth, anxiously.
much relieved as they went up to call Meg.
"I shall stay, of course, I'm oldest," began Meg, looking anxious and
"I'll go and tell Amy," said Meg, feeling a little hurt, yet rather
have the fever than go to Aunt March.  Meg reasoned, pleaded, and
commanded, all in vain.  Amy protested that she would not go, and Meg
"Good girl!  Call Meg, and tell her you'll give in," said Laurie, with
Meg and Jo came running down to behold the miracle which had been
Meg.
"That is what troubles me," said Meg.  "I think we ought to tell her if
"We will.  Jo, go and get Dr. Bangs at once," commanded Meg. "We can't
"I'm afraid you are busy," began Meg.
"He does very well, for a boy," was Meg's somewhat ungracious answer,
excellent nurse.  Meg stayed at home, lest she should infect the Kings,
imploringly for her mother.  Then Jo grew frightened, Meg begged to be
Hannah sat up at night, Meg kept a telegram in her desk all ready to
Hannah nodded without speaking, for her lips twitched nervously, Meg
"Doesn't Meg pull fair?" asked Laurie, looking indignant.
Meg had a quiet rapture, and then brooded over the letter, while Jo set
day Jo and Meg hovered over her, watching, waiting, hoping, and
"If God spares Beth, I never will complain again," whispered Meg
"I wish I had no heart, it aches so," sighed Meg, after a pause.
bed, and turning quickly, saw Meg kneeling before their mother's easy
she thought, "Beth is dead, and Meg is afraid to tell me."
"See," said Meg, coming up with a white, half-opened rose, "I thought
so lovely as it did to the heavy eyes of Meg and Jo, as they looked out
"It looks like a fairy world," said Meg, smiling to herself, as she
day that she told Jo she wanted to give her piano to Meg, her cats to
Meg's tender hope was realized, for when Beth woke from that long,
finding it impossible to vent her excitement in any other way, and Meg
off, Meg and Jo closed their weary eyes, and lay at rest, like
That evening while Meg was writing to her father to report the
"About Meg?"
settling herself on the floor at her mother's feet.  "Last summer Meg
liked Meg but didn't dare say so, she was so young and he so poor.
"Do you think Meg cares for him?" asked Mrs. March, with an anxious
and acting like fools.  Now Meg does not do anything of the sort.  She
"Then you fancy that Meg is not interested in John?"
you won't send him away, but let Meg marry him, if she wants to.  Mean
was perfectly open and honorable about Meg, for he told us he loved
to Meg's engaging herself so young."
could marry Meg myself, and keep her safe in the family."
I confide in you and don't wish you to say anything to Meg yet.  When
around the house, and we shall have to dodge.  Meg will be absorbed and
business, and not tell Meg a word of it, but all be happy together as
can, and I am sorry that this happened so soon, for Meg is only
Meg comfortable.  I'm not ambitious for a splendid fortune, a
content to see Meg begin humbly, for if I am not mistaken, she will be
"I understand, Mother, and quite agree, but I'm disappointed about Meg,
"I'm afraid Laurie is hardly grown-up enough for Meg, and altogether
"What's that about flatirons and cats?" asked Meg, as she crept into
"Do you call him 'John'?" asked Meg, smiling, with her innocent eyes
so inexpressibly comfortable to have you here," was Meg's answer.
and she found it hard not to look mysterious and important.  Meg
assumed a patronizing air, which decidedly aggravated Meg, who in turn
he satisfied himself that it concerned Meg and Mr. Brooke.  Feeling
Meg meanwhile had apparently forgotten the matter and was absorbed in
"Here's a note to you, Meg, all sealed up.  How odd! Teddy never seals
Mrs. March and Jo were deep in their own affairs, when a sound from Meg
and Meg hid her face in her hands, crying as if her heart were quite
Meg's mild eyes kindled with anger as she pulled a crumpled note from
"It's like his writing," faltered Meg, comparing it with the note in
"Oh, Meg, you didn't answer it?" cried Mrs. March quickly.
"Yes, I did!" and Meg hid her face again, overcome with shame.
tell me the whole story," commanded Mrs. March, sitting down by Meg,
anything about it," began Meg, without looking up. "I was worried at
was a pattern of prudence!  Tell on, Meg. What did he say to that?"
Meg leaned against her mother, looking the image of despair, and Jo
trouble, as I should have done," said Meg warningly.
"That will do, Jo.  I'll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie.  I
Away ran Jo, and Mrs. March gently told Meg Mr. Brooke's real feelings.
with lovers for a long while, perhaps never," answered Meg petulantly.
Seeing Meg's usually gentle temper was roused and her pride hurt by
was heard in the hall, Meg fled into the study, and Mrs. March received
wise to betray the fact.  Meg received his humble apology, and was much
me, so you'll forgive me, Meg, and I'll do anything to show how
you could be so sly and malicious, Laurie," replied Meg, trying to hide
Meg pardoned him, and Mrs. March's grave face relaxed, in spite of her
when Meg and her mother went upstairs, she felt lonely and longed for
bringing Meg in.  As I couldn't, I held my tongue, and bore the
everyone, just for a bit of a frolic.  I was sorry about Meg, and
"I know Meg would wet-blanket such a proposal, but I thought you had
made as light of the prank as she could without betraying Meg or
the mischief was done, for though others forgot it, Meg remembered.
airing about the house in her strong arms.  Meg cheerfully blackened
"Of course I am!" cried Meg, smoothing the silvery folds of her first
Laurie in the china closet.  Mr. Brooke kissed Meg entirely by mistake,
there, and after a glance at Meg, who was violently poking the fire,
"Rather a pleasant year on the whole!" said Meg, smiling at the fire,
"Oh, tell us what they are!" cried Meg, who sat beside him.
last a long time, so much good will went into the stitches.  Meg, my
If Meg had wanted a reward for hours of patient labor, she received it
mother all the afternoon, gave Meg her place tonight, and has waited on
another with an anxious expression, as their eyes followed Meg.  Jo had
umbrella, which had been left in the hall.  Meg was absent-minded, shy,
Laurie went by in the afternoon, and seeing Meg at the window, seemed
imploringly, as if begging some boon. And when Meg told him to behave
"What does the goose mean?" said Meg, laughing and trying to look
"Don't say my John, it isn't proper or true," but Meg's voice lingered
I was too young," began Meg, bending over her work with a queer little
Jo couldn't help smiling at the important air which Meg had
"I think not, if you liked anyone very much, and he liked you."  Meg
Meg rose as she spoke, and was just going to rehearse the dignified
her reply, Jo slipped out of the room to give Meg a chance to make her
speech and air her dignity.  But the instant she vanished, Meg began to
hurt that Meg thought she must have done something very rude.  She
in both his own, and looking down at Meg with so much love in the brown
Meg.  I love you so much, dear," added Mr. Brooke tenderly.
This was the moment for the calm, proper speech, but Meg didn't make
"I'm too young," faltered Meg, wondering why she was so fluttered, yet
"Please choose to learn, Meg.  I love to teach, and this is easier than
His tone was properly beseeching, but stealing a shy look at him, Meg
about his ears, for he had never seen Meg in such a mood before, and it
nothing till you have had more time.  Don't play with me, Meg.  I
"Don't think of me at all.  I'd rather you wouldn't," said Meg, taking
surprise them.  She did surprise two of them so much that Meg started
"It's Father's friend.  I'm so surprised to see you!" stammered Meg,
"We were only talking.  Mr. Brooke came for his umbrella," began Meg,
"Hush! He'll hear.  Shan't I call Mother?" said Meg, much troubled.
in love.  If Aunt March had begged Meg to accept John Brooke, she would
easy, and being already much excited, Meg opposed the old lady with
Meg.
not know her in this new mood.  Meg hardly knew herself, she felt so
could, "Now, Meg, my dear, be reasonable and take my advice.  I mean it
"I'm glad of it," cried Meg stoutly.
I thought you had more sense, Meg."
Meg, looking prettier than ever in her earnestness.
meanness, and I won't listen to you a minute if you talk so," cried Meg
Meg stopped there, remembering all of a sudden that she hadn't made up
And slamming the door in Meg's face, Aunt March drove off in high
left alone, Meg stood for a moment, undecided whether to laugh or cry.
Brooke, who said all in one breath, "I couldn't help hearing, Meg.
"I didn't know how much till she abused you," began Meg.
stately exit, but Meg never thought of doing either, and disgraced
saw her.  Meg jumped up, looking both proud and shy, but 'that man', as
John Brooke is acting dreadfully, and Meg likes it!"
he meant to earn for Meg, and he proudly took her in to supper, both
was very much impressed by John's devotion and Meg's dignity, Beth
"You can't say nothing pleasant ever happens now, can you, Meg?" said
seems a year ago," answered Meg, who was in a blissful dream lifted far
see Meg absorbed in a stranger before her face, for Jo loved a few
I live to work out my plans," said Mr. Brooke, smiling at Meg, as if
time to me," answered Meg, with a sweet gravity in her face never seen
labors by picking up Meg's napkin, with an expression which caused Jo
how hard it is for me to give up Meg," she continued with a little
see.  Meg is happy, Brooke will fly round and get settled immediately,
Grandpa will attend to him, and it will be very jolly to see Meg in her
So the curtain falls upon Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy.  Whether it ever
In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg's wedding...
In order that we may start afresh and go to Meg's wedding with free
saw her last, and just now so absorbed in Meg's affairs that the
business, and earning a home for Meg.  With the good sense and sturdy
Meg had spent the time in working as well as waiting, growing womanly
must begin.  Ned Moffat had just married Sallie Gardiner, and Meg
fascination with which she was endowed.  Meg was too much absorbed in
Meg's first home.  Laurie had christened it, saying it was highly
handkerchief in the front.  Here Meg meant to have a fountain,
mother put away Meg's few boxes, barrels, and bundles, and I am morally
and Meg found so many proofs of this that everything in her small nest,
a bag of remarkable clothespins, next, a wonderful nutmeg grater which
In vain Meg begged him to stop.  John laughed at him, and Jo called him
keep me from getting lazy or homesick," answered Meg tranquilly.
"If Meg had four, the house wouldn't hold them, and master and missis
fine establishment.  Meg and John begin humbly, but I have a feeling
the big one.  It's a great mistake for young girls like Meg to leave
laugh at her," said Meg.
begin at the other end, Meg, dear, but the lessons you learn now will
"Yes, Mother, I'm sure of that," said Meg, listening respectfully to
of all in my baby house," added Meg, a minute after, as they went
exulting over the goodly array.  All three laughed as Meg spoke, for
that linen closet was a joke.  You see, having said that if Meg married
all my days, Hannah says."  And Meg looked quite contented, as well she
As Laurie spoke, he delivered a brown paper parcel to Meg, pulled
"Where is John?" asked Meg anxiously.
"What's the last joke?  Undo the bundle and see, Meg," said Beth, eying
"Any time when John is away and you get frightened, Mrs. Meg, just
"I wonder if you will ever grow up, Laurie," said Meg in a matronly
to settle," said Meg, bustling away.
say any more about it.  Meg's wedding has turned all our heads, and we
Meg looked very like a rose herself, for all that was best and sweetest
"You do look just like our own dear Meg, only so very sweet and lovely
today,"  and Meg opened her arms to her sisters, who clung about her
minutes with Father quietly in the study,"  and Meg ran down to perform
went Meg to help 'that man' in his highly improper employment.
arch.  Mother and sisters gathered close, as if loath to give Meg up.
visibly, and no one heard his replies.  But Meg looked straight up in
married, Meg cried, "The first kiss for Marmee!" and turning, gave it
Meg spoke seriously and expected to see Laurie frown or laugh, but he
accent in Meg's voice.
for ridicule is often harder to bear than self-denial. Meg knew that if
house and garden, enjoying the sunshine without and within.  Meg and
be sorry for it," said Aunt March to Meg, adding to the bridegroom, as
The little house was not far away, and the only bridal journey Meg had
so Meg's married life began.
and Amy's hair, Jo's nose, Meg's mouth, and Laurie's eyes were
Meg agreed at once, and promised her aid, gladly offering anything she
Beth got a cold and took to her bed.  Meg had an unusual number of
would get safely home again.  The carriages were promised, Meg and
Meg soberly.
said Meg, who firmly believed that this book was the most remarkable
Meg admired the tragedy, so Jo piled up the agony to suit her, while
Like most other young matrons, Meg began her married life with the
live on love alone.  John did not find Meg's beauty diminished, though
she beamed at him from behind the familiar coffee pot.  Nor did Meg
and Meg laid by her cambric wrappers, put on a big apron, and fell to
found, however, Meg added to her domestic possessions what young
the nice little jars would look so well on the top shelf, that Meg
advised the plan.  So Meg wrestled alone with the refractory sweetmeats
it never happened to be unexpected, and Meg had never had an
"Yes," sobbed Meg despairingly.
put the finishing stroke to poor Meg's woe.
John got no further, for Meg cast him off, and clasped her hands with a
have remembered how busy I was," continued Meg petulantly, for even
sorry, but I was so busy," and Meg's tears began again.
fate.  Meg thought it was too cruel to hint about her sad failure, and
having delivered her defiance all on one breath, Meg cast away her
Scott was not taken 'up to Mother's', and when Meg descended, after
Meg longed to go and tell Mother, but a sense of shame at her own
John was angry, though he did not show it, he felt that Meg had
be laughed at or pitied.  No, by George, it wasn't! And Meg must know
again at the mere thought of it, and then the fear that Meg would cry
Meg likewise resolved to be 'calm and kind, but firm', and show him his
"I've no objection," was Meg's equally soothing remark.  A few other
figuratively speaking.  Meg went to the other window, and sewed as if
"Oh, dear," thought Meg, "married life is very trying, and does need
though you call him 'fussy'. Never deceive him by look or word, Meg,
These words came back to Meg, as she sat sewing in the sunset,
But he did, oh bless you, yes, hundreds of times, and so did Meg, both
After this, Meg had Mr. Scott to dinner by special invitation, and
In the autumn, new trials and experiences came to Meg.  Sallie Moffat
day at the big house.  It was pleasant, for in dull weather Meg often
out that Meg got into the way of gadding and gossiping with her friend.
her the coveted trifles, but Meg declined them, knowing that John
fear.  But that autumn the serpent got into Meg's paradise, and tempted
her like many a modern Eve, not with apples, but with dress.  Meg
was absent, but the third he had a grand quarterly settling up, and Meg
it weighed upon her conscience.  Sallie had been buying silks, and Meg
lend the money, and with the best intentions in life had tempted Meg
night, Meg's heart sank, and for the first time in her married life,
undoing the old pocketbook which they called the 'bank', when Meg,
The little book was brought slowly out and laid down before him. Meg
fifty dollars!" thought Meg, with a shiver.
"It isn't made or trimmed," sighed Meg, faintly, for a sudden
pleasures for Meg's sake.  She could have bitten her tongue out the
my best, Meg."  If he had scolded her, or even shaken her, it would not
but Meg knew that she had done and said a thing which would not be
herself to sleep.  A week of remorse nearly made Meg sick, and the
Meg said no more, but a few minutes after he found her in the hall with
They had a long talk that night, and Meg learned to love her husband
of it immediately afterward.  Then Meg ordered home the greatcoat, and
early, Meg gadded no more, and that greatcoat was put on in the morning
Meg a new experience, the deepest and tenderest of a woman's life.
and grandmother.  We shall call her Daisey, so as not to have two Megs,
handkerchief.  We'll stop at Meg's, and borrow her white sunshade, and
the white parasol and been inspected by Meg, with a baby on each arm.
help.  One of us _must_ marry well.  Meg didn't, Jo won't, Beth can't
now Meg is gone.  Beth is too feeble and Amy too young to depend upon,
"Oh dear, we are growing up with a vengeance.  Here's Meg married and a
same in all--the desire to see their children happy. Meg is so, and I
thought he remembered seeing me at one of the minor theaters.  Meg will
and Mrs. March, John and Meg, Jo and Beth, and all exulted over him
Meg's, and a refreshing sniff and sip at the Daisy and Demijohn, still
to frighten you all when Marmee was so anxious about Meg, and Amy away,
me.  I don't want any secrets, and it's kinder to prepare them.  Meg
and the wind, flying far out to sea, and happy all alone.  Meg is the
Not being a belle or even a fashionable lady, Meg did not experience
But three months passed, and there was no return of repose.  Meg looked
Meg rather approved of the new arrangement at first, and found it a
crow, and Meg would put by her lamentations for a maternal revel, which
interesting points with Scott, quite unconscious that Meg missed him.
day, and insisted on knowing what the matter was, for Meg's drooping
Meg."
"Indeed I will!  Speak to me as if I were little Meg again. I often
Meg drew her low chair beside her mother's, and with a little
natural and forgivable mistake, Meg, but one that had better be
"I know it, Meg, for I've tried it, and I seldom give advice unless
This is just the time, Meg, when young married people are apt to grow
Meg did think it over, found it good, and acted upon it, though the
A few days after the talk with her mother, Meg resolved to try a social
night he decided to go on a rampage.  So poor Meg sang and rocked, told
poor Papa his tea?" asked Meg, as the hall door softly closed, and the
Taking advantage of the propitious moment, Meg slipped away and ran
"Ditto, ditto, Mr. Brooke," laughed Meg, looking young and pretty
said Meg, answering the call.
Meg...
"Yes, of course.  Come, Demi,"  and Meg led her son away, feeling a
Meg returned to her place, and supper was progressing pleasantly, when
him in his bed and leave him, Meg."
exercise usually conquered Meg, but John sat as unmoved as the post
The plaintive wail which succeeded the passionate roar went to Meg's
"But he'll cry himself sick," pleaded Meg, reproaching herself for
When John spoke in that masterful tone, Meg always obeyed, and never
Meg always insisted upon it that the kiss won the victory, for after it
up, and then go and set Meg's heart at rest," thought John, creeping to
Sitting on the stairs outside Meg wondered at the long silence which
As Meg stood watching the two faces on the pillow, she smiled to
wife, he was agreeably surprised to find Meg placidly trimming a
knowing that Meg was such a transparent little person, she couldn't
explained it in his most lucid manner, while Meg tried to look deeply
and Meg illustrated by putting on the bonnet and regarding him with an
Meg recovered her spirits and composed her nerves by plenty of
John had no wish to leave it, unless he took Meg with him.  The Scotts
here, it does me good, Meg," she used to say, looking about her with
This household happiness did not come all at once, but John and Meg had
Meg learned, that a woman's happiest kingdom is home, her highest honor
looked on?  Meg and Beth were frightened, but Jo clapped and pranced,
sketches, and every day Meg brought her babies on a loving pilgrimage,
Meg was, how well she could talk, how much she knew about good, womanly
Meg laughed, for she was glad to see a glimmer of Jo's old spirit, but
Meg's most effective arguments were the babies, whom Jo loved tenderly.
"Your mother has got her down at Meg's.  We stopped there by the way,
The minute she put her eyes upon Amy, Meg became conscious that her own
away, utterly regardless of the lapse of time, till Meg, whose maternal
Meg made many moral rules, and tried to keep them, but what mother was
says Meg, as she leads her assistant cooks upstairs, when the pudding
there were two paths to Meg's whichever one she took she was sure to
that moment.  Then, if she was going to Meg's he always had something
    "Meg" on the first lid, smooth and fair.
    In another small Meg's play.
"It will be an immense care for Jo," said Meg, stroking the head of her
Mrs. March and Meg sat among the apple piles like a pair of Pomonas,
Meg, with a detachment of the bigger boys, set forth the supper on the
Meg laid her hand on her tall boy's head, with a face full of tender
love him enough.  So, in spite of my one cross, I can say with Meg,
dear," added Meg's tender voice.
